# 3 Years as a One Man Startup

私はここ3年間の大半を、語学学習webアプリの開発に捧げました。
[Readlang](http://readlang.com).

私は[2年ほど前に、このプロダクトを軌道に乗せるための苦闘の跡を書き](http://steveridout.com/2014/03/22/readlang-my-bootstrapped-language-
learning-web-app.html)[Hacker
News](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=7450519)や他の場所での反応に興奮しました。ずっとそのフォロー記事を書きたいなと思ってましたが、ずっと自分に我慢するよう言い聞かせていたのです。。

> もうひとひねりくらいで利用者も跳ね上がるはずだ。そうしたらきっと何か書くべきこともあるに違いない！

そしていま私はその3年後にいます。利用者は跳ねませんでした、しかし気まぐれにときどき成長しました。 私は3年間ハードに働き、_依然最低賃金を下回っています_。しかしそれは見た目ほど悪いものではありません。

起業家として生き残るために、収入は重要です。しかしそれはしばしば、非常に有益な情報であるにも関わらずタブーとされます。 問題は、もしあなたが低い収入を公開しても、真剣だと受けとってもらえないことです。もしあなたが十分稼いでいれば、人は耳を傾けますが同時に競争と嫉妬を招きます。私は依然低い側にいますが。。

新規契約は1年目の2,800から2年目で9,300、3年目で36,800件まで増えました。 収入は、1年目がだいたい$700、2年目が$4,100、そして3年目で$16,500です。 費用は少ないので、3年目で利益は約$14500となります。イギリスポンドで約£9,700です。最低賃金で週28時間働けばもっと稼げます。
わたしはそれより_とても_働きました、なので経験豊富なソフトウェア開発者としては高い機会費用を払ったことになります。

I regularly question my decision to continue pouring so much time into
Readlang. I wonder about the lucrative life of a contractor, or the cushy job
of software developer at a large tech company. I wonder if I’m hurting my
chances of future employment by working so long on my own.

On the other hand, profits have grown 480% over the past year. If this
continues, the future looks good. In year 4 (2016) I would make a typical UK
software developer salary, and by the end of year 5 I’d be financially
rewarded for the risk I’ve taken compared to being employed. But that’s still
**two years away**. And is it even realistic to expect the trend to continue?
I don’t know, but I’m making a bet that while I continue to work on it, the
answer is yes.

There are easier ways of making a living. But I’m proud of what I’m making,
and it seems to _genuinely help people to learn languages_. Here are a couple
of the _many quotes_ I’ve received by email within the past month:

> En primeras palabras quiero decir, que me gusta muchísimo tu pagina. Es de
verdad grande trabajo.

If your Spanish isn’t great, try [reading the above quote on
Readlang](http://readlang.com/library/568a5501ddb6ae5b165d2c33).

> I’m in a polyglot group, and we all try different language tools constantly
(Memrise, Anki, FluentU, etc), but I think Readlang has been the “stickiest”
for the majority of us.

On top of that, prolific language learner Alex Rawlings recently wrote of
Readlang:

> This simple tool has changed the way I learn languages forever.

Feedback like this assures me that I’m doing something right.

Readlang is [ramen
profitable](http://www.paulgraham.com/ramenprofitable.html), helping more
people every day, and there’s still plenty of room for improvement. Of course
I’m continuing.

I plan to write more about creating Readlang. If you’d like to ask a question,
suggest a topic, or hear updates, please find me on twitter
[@Steve_Ridout](https://twitter.com/Steve_Ridout).
